---
title: "Recommendations"
date: 2025-09-24
---
# RESOURCES & TOOLS I LOVE

_\*These links are affiliate links\*_

## 📍 **Apps for Productivity**

Finding the proper app to fit into your workflow can be challenging. The first step is to compare some apps and identify the most essential features for your daily life. While some apps work as an all-in-one planning system, I've found it best to split apps into a few different categories and use the app that best fits your needs: Planning (calendar & tasks), Notes, and Boosts.

# Planning

A simple task manager that uses natural language and works on all devices. This integrates to MANY other apps (including some on this list) and is a great start if you're new to digital planning.

A task manager and a daily planner that connects to Jira, Asana, Click Up, Notion, ToDoist, email, calendar, and other apps to help you plan your day with a view of ALL your life in one beautiful dashboard. I highly recommend this.

TickTick works across ALL devices and within email platforms. It integrates with Siri and is a super simple and clean interface. It's super customizable with habit, time, and task-tracking features.

An app that allows you to connect all your calendars into one native app. It's built for collaboration, making it super quick and easy to start and enter meetings, and is available for scheduling. It's the only calendar app I use now, and I love it.

# Note Taking

It's probably the most popular note app and incredibly flexible. There are many videos, templates, and resources to help you learn to use it. However, it can be a bit too feature-heavy and distracting for some. I use it for projects, notes, tasks, and even this website.

Obsidian is for you if you don't want your files on some server somewhere. It is equally as flexible as a notion, but it does has a bit more of a learning curve. This is perfect if you value privacy and have a basic understanding of coding.

If you primarily use notes for meetings and work, Mem.ai is a great choice. Notes can be easily searched, shared, and generated based on calendar events. AI helps you find what you need after the "mem" is made.

If you like Obsidian but want something a little cleaner and simple, this is it. It has web, desktop and phone apps available.

# Workflow Upgrades

Raycast is a launcher app on steroids. It lets you complete tasks, calculate, share common links, access clipboard history, and make almost everything you do faster. Its uses are endless, and it's hard to explain how helpful it is without trying it. For PC users, use [Key Pirinha](https://keypirinha.com/) as an alternative.

Screen capture, recording, scrolling capture, editing, and customization for every screenshot setting you could want. If you ever share photos of your screen, this app makes it easier and faster to do so. For PC users, try [ShareX](https://getsharex.com/) as an alternative.

A screen recorder, content creation tool, and editor rolled into one. I use this app to create tutorials, make how-to videos, and create short-form content for TikTok and Instagram; it's affordable and the best tool on the market, in my opinion.

Arc is built on Chromium, so all your bookmarks, extensions, and apps will still work, but this browser is built for humans and is incredibly designed. It’s free and you need to try it.

Move, copy, share, shrink, airdrop, upload, and shorten images, URLs, and files with one tiny icon on your menu bar. It's the easiest and fastest way to edit and manage files. Everyone could benefit from this app; the free version alone is incredible. PC users, try [Unclutter](https://unclutterapp.com/?irgwc=1).

Many of these apps are available on the [Setapp](https://go.setapp.com/invite/d8e1g3vm). It's a $10/mo subscription service that gives you access to over 100 apps and tools, including Note Plan 3, Dropzone, Cleanshot X, Craft, and many more.

It's an expensive ($30/mo) but elite email manager. I wrote an [entire blog post](https://medium.com/@noraconrad/spending-30-per-month-on-email-51bb1f5c41ca) about why I love it and how it’s different from other apps you’ve used before. If you spend more than an hour daily on email, this will be well worth the investment.

Lazy is a quick entry note and bookmarking tool. It’s like Raycast, Obsidian and Raindrop had a baby. You can add tasks, context, tags, link to note and ask the AI questions about past notes. It’s one of the most seamless note taking tools I’ve ever used.

## ✉️ **Other incredible tools**

**## ***Whether you want to set good goals, make cozy office space, or find tech that helps you focus, having the right stuff can bring great joy. T***his is my collection of miscellaneous essentials.**

# Planners

The PowerSheet workbook from Cultivate What Matters has been a staple for me for over six years. It's beautifully designed, well-made, and thoughtfully written. The Cultivate What Matters team has a ton of free resources and some other excellent products as well, so check them out if you're looking for a guided journal to hit those goals.

This notebook from Baronfig is a guided journal to help you focus on 12-week goals. Its thoughtful and clean design makes it a joy to use, and the paper quality is incredible. While it's great for your desk at work, it is also an excellent choice for content creation, project management, or fitness goals. Baronfig has a beautiful collection of guided journals, so check out their other options.

A journal dedicated to helping entrepreneurs hit their goals in 13 weeks. It’s full of reflection prompts and guided journaling pages to help you identify and hit your goals. Their website and newsletter are full of value to help you along the way and motivate you to hit the next level in your industry

# Newsletters

Your politically neutral, Christ-first, news source. The biggest news of the day, summarized in a way you'll actually understand and enjoy, paired with brief Christian perspectives. It’s a great newsletter to keep up on current events without the feeling of dread and hopelessness that is so often paired with the news.

My second favorite newsletter is the Morning Brew. It’s a great recap of the daily news paired with some games and fun. This one paired with The Pour Over have become my go-to news sources. They are politically neutral and do a great job of keeping things real without the doom and gloom. I start every morning with the daily read.

Colin and Samir’s creator newsletter is one of my favorite ways to keep updated on the creator economy. The creator economy is expected to become a $2 Trillion market by 2026, and being a small part of that is exciting. The Press Publish newsletter has great tips, interviews and insight on this ever-shifting market and helps me create better content.

I am picky about what emails come into my box - this list is updated with the creators and newsletters I think are most valuable for small business owners, parents and people trying to get their systems together. This list is updated regularly.
